---
layout: post
title: Tenable Plugin Downloads Links
tags:
- Tenable
- Tips
show: true
---
<p>
There are a few instances where you might need to manually download the latest set of Tenable plugin files. If you have the link handy, it's a straightforward task. However, if the download link hasn't been recorded during installation or has been lost over time, it's a little more tricky. Here, I'll run through the process to recover the link from a licensed Tenable Security Center.
</p>

<!--more-->
<p>
This process it's complicate, nor is is a secret - I'm pretty sure Tenable have their own KB articles for this process.
</p>

* Do not remove this line (it will not be displayed)
{:toc}

#### 1 - Generate a Diagnostics File
In general, the only time you need to generate a diagnostics file is when you're working with Tenable Support. However, in this case, it is the easiest way for us to get the information we need, including our download credentials.

To generate the diagnostics file
- Log into Tenable Security Center as an admin user.
- Navigate to System -> Diagnostics File.
- Leave all the options selected and click "Generate file".
- Once the file is generated, this can take a few minutes, download the file to your local machine

#### 2 - Extract the Credential details
The diagnostics file generated by Tenable Security Center contains a plethora of information. Of all the information in the file, we are only interested in two fields.```PluginSubscriptionLogin``` and ```PluginSubscriptionPassword```

- Extract the ```debug.zip``` archive with the tool of your choice.
- In the extracted content, find the file ```sc-configuration.txt``` and open it with any text editor.
- In the file take note of the two fields ```PluginSubscriptionLogin``` and ```PluginSubscriptionPassword```

#### 3 - Build the Download Link
Now that we have the download credentials from SC, all we need to do is construct the download link. In the URL below, replace ```<login>``` with the value of ```PluginSubscriptionLogin``` and ```<password>``` with the value of ```PluginSubscriptionPassword```. Depending on the file you need, you can also change the f= field in the URL to download the file you need, as shown below.

  - ```https://plugins.nessus.org/get.php?f=SecurityCenterFeed48.tar.gz&u=<login>&p=<password>```
  - ```https://plugins.nessus.org/get.php?f=sc-plugins-diff.tar.gz&u=<login>&p=<password>```
  - ```https://plugins.nessus.org/get.php?f=all-2.0.tar.gz&u=<login>&p=<password>```


#### Note
I have seen some Tenable documentation use https://downloads.nessus.org instead of https://plugins.nessus.org. I'm not sure what the difference is or if there is any. At the time of writing this, all three files are available from both URLs and have matching hashes.

{% highlight powershell %}
PS E:\tmp> Get-FileHash -Path *  -Algorithm SHA1 | Select Hash, Path
Hash                                      Path
----                                      ----
6B067ACED0D383608CE60AEE2FA119C98A042B34  E:\all-2.0-p.tar.gz
6B067ACED0D383608CE60AEE2FA119C98A042B34  E:\all-2.0.tar.gz
A54D6F94104AADE01E8231F4AE0161A3F58CD4E0  E:\sc-plugins-diff-p.tar.gz
A54D6F94104AADE01E8231F4AE0161A3F58CD4E0  E:\sc-plugins-diff.tar.gz
A15FEFABB0E15B488801637D7C2A3C5C840CA217  E:\SecurityCenterFeed48-p.tar.gz
A15FEFABB0E15B488801637D7C2A3C5C840CA217  E:\SecurityCenterFeed48.tar.gz
PS E:\tmp>
{% endhighlight %}